README.md, before:

# Totara Code Sniffer Standard

This project contains a Code Sniffer Standard for Totara Learn.

## Prerequisites

 * PHP 5.6 or higher
 * Composer (https://getcomposer.org/)

## Installation

Clone this repository into a folder of your choice. 

In the root of the project run:
 
```
# Install composer packages (--dev is only required for running phpunit)
# If needed, change "composer" to the composer executable on your machine.
composer install --no-dev

# add the standard, use full path to the standard folder
vendor/bin/phpcs --config-set installed_paths /full/path/to/src/Standards

# Now check what standards PHPCS can use…
vendor/bin/phpcs -i

# should output something like
The installed coding standards are PEAR, Zend, PSR2, MySource, Squiz, PSR1, PSR12 and Totara
```
 
Optionally you can add phpcs to your path:

```
# Add this to your ~/.bash_profile or ~/.profile
# (Replace /path/to/this/project/ with the actual one on your machine)
export PATH="$PATH:/path/to/this/project/vendor/bin"

# don't forget to either do
source ~/.bash_profile
# or 
source ~/.profile

# or start a new shell
```

## Usage

### Console

To run Code Sniffer using the Totara Standard on the console 

```
vendor/bin/phpcs --standard=Totara [--extensions=php,js] [folder_or_file_to_check]

# Example:
vendor/bin/phpcs --standard=Totara --extensions=php /path/to/your/project/classes/[MyClassToCheck.php]

# or if you've added phpcs to your path
phpcs --standard=Totara --extensions=php classes/[MyClassToCheck.php]
```

As some Sniffs can also check JavaScript files you might want to limit the extensions to one of the two.

### PHPStorm

To set up PHPStorm to automatically check your files and highlight coding style violations directly in the code 

 1. Open "Preferences"
 2. Go to "Languages & Framework" => "PHP" => "Quality Tools" => "Code Sniffer"
 3. Make sure that in the Configuration the "PHP Code Snifffer path" points to the "vendor/bin/phpcs" file within this project
 4. "Validate" the selection and click "Apply"
 4. Go to "Editor" => "Inspections"
 5. In the big tree of Inspections find "PHP" => "Quality Tools" => "PHP Code Sniffer Validation"
 6. Activate the inspection
 7. In the right panel under "Options" choose "Custom" as Standard and click on the "..." button next to it
 8. Choose the ruleset.xml file from this project (`src/Standards/Totara/ruleset.xml`)
 9. Click "OK"
 
That's it. Now all violations should be marked directly within your code view.

## Development

### Sniffs

In the xml file `src/Standards/Totara/ruleset.xml` you find all rules used for this Coding Standard. It is a mixture of Sniffs from other Standards and our own Sniffs.

If you create or modify Sniffs within this project make sure you stick to the PSR-2 Coding Standard (to match the style of the original Code Sniffer library) and PSR-4 autoloading.

### Testing

If you create or modify Sniffs within this project make sure you create or update unit tests for it.

To run the unit tests:

```
# If you haven't done it before, run
composer install

# Then run all tests with:
vendor/bin/phpunit
```

## Git Hook

There is also a pre-commit hook for git to run Code Sniffer on commit.

Check out the [instructions](git-hook) on how to use it.

Commit message:

Add post-install/-update script to set installed patch automatically

README.md, after:

# Totara Code Sniffer Standard

This project contains a Code Sniffer Standard for Totara Learn.

## Prerequisites

 * PHP 5.6 or higher
 * Composer (https://getcomposer.org/)

## Installation

Clone this repository into a folder of your choice. 

In the root of the project run:
 
```
# Install composer packages (--dev is only required for running phpunit)
# If needed, change "composer" to the composer executable on your machine.
composer install --no-dev

# Now check what standards PHPCS can use
# The new Totara coding standard is automatically set after composer install
vendor/bin/phpcs -i

# should output something like
The installed coding standards are PEAR, Zend, PSR2, MySource, Squiz, PSR1, PSR12 and Totara
```
 
Optionally you can add phpcs to your path:

```
# Add this to your ~/.bash_profile or ~/.profile
# (Replace /path/to/this/project/ with the actual one on your machine)
export PATH="$PATH:/path/to/this/project/vendor/bin"

# don't forget to either do
source ~/.bash_profile
# or 
source ~/.profile

# or start a new shell
```

## Usage

### Console

To run Code Sniffer using the Totara Standard on the console 

```
vendor/bin/phpcs --standard=Totara [--extensions=php,js] [folder_or_file_to_check]

# Example:
vendor/bin/phpcs --standard=Totara --extensions=php /path/to/your/project/classes/[MyClassToCheck.php]

# or if you've added phpcs to your path
phpcs --standard=Totara --extensions=php classes/[MyClassToCheck.php]
```

As some Sniffs can also check JavaScript files you might want to limit the extensions to one of the two.

### PHPStorm

To set up PHPStorm to automatically check your files and highlight coding style violations directly in the code 

 1. Open "Preferences"
 2. Go to "Languages & Framework" => "PHP" => "Quality Tools" => "Code Sniffer"
 3. Make sure that in the Configuration the "PHP Code Snifffer path" points to the "vendor/bin/phpcs" file within this project
 4. "Validate" the selection and click "Apply"
 4. Go to "Editor" => "Inspections"
 5. In the big tree of Inspections find "PHP" => "Quality Tools" => "PHP Code Sniffer Validation"
 6. Activate the inspection
 7. In the right panel under "Options" choose "Custom" as Standard and click on the "..." button next to it
 8. Choose the ruleset.xml file from this project (`src/Standards/Totara/ruleset.xml`)
 9. Click "OK"
 
That's it. Now all violations should be marked directly within your code view.

## Development

### Sniffs

In the xml file `src/Standards/Totara/ruleset.xml` you find all rules used for this Coding Standard. It is a mixture of Sniffs from other Standards and our own Sniffs.

If you create or modify Sniffs within this project make sure you stick to the PSR-2 Coding Standard (to match the style of the original Code Sniffer library) and PSR-4 autoloading.

### Testing

If you create or modify Sniffs within this project make sure you create or update unit tests for it.

To run the unit tests:

```
# If you haven't done it before, run
composer install

# Then run all tests with:
vendor/bin/phpunit
```

## Git Hook

There is also a pre-commit hook for git to run Code Sniffer on commit.

Check out the [instructions](git-hook) on how to use it.
